= yaml =
title: Learning Tiled
date: 2013-10-06
= yaml =

After hooking up the IIO engine we quickly decided that it wasn't for us. At first glance there seemed to be a lot of documentaiton but there isn't really. At least not for the stuff we would like to do. On the upside that has lead me to think of other problems like generating the levels or maps in the game. Didn't have to look far to find [Tiled](http://www.mapeditor.org). It is super awesome and ridiculously easy to work with. I also really enjoy the way you use Tiled to make maps. Essentially you paint a base map or huge sprite sheet and then just clone from that oringinal tile sheet onto a blank canvas and then you can just instatnyl see what you want your level to look like. You can also assign attributes to tiles...like collision for example. I will have to ask Mike or Jason about how that part works but this defintaetly seems like the way to go. I have been practiving and making some different tiles. Actually the other day I somehow forgot to save about two hours worth of work...total bummer but on the upside hopefully that practive will just help me make a better tile set overall. It's all practice at this point. I remember hearing somwhere that in te time Phil Fish was close to finising FEZ he got so much better at pixel art that he eventually ended up going back and pretty much redid all his tiles. 

After you use Tiled to generate a map, you can then export a special file that can then be rendered by a number of [different frameworks](https://github.com/bjorn/tiled/wiki/Support-for-TMX-maps). At this point I can't really say more than that because I don't understand much more than that.

